



CENTENNIAL COLLEGE
School of Engineering Technology and Applied science
Mechanics and Materials




Magdalena Mendoza Ormaza - 301160901
Enrique Pacheco – 301149284
Dante Rodriguez Pedraza –301144588
Elian Tovar Daza – 301173449
Robo 240 Sec 001
Centennial College
Global Citizenship and Equity
Prof. Pouria Tavakkoli Avval
March X, 2022



Abstract 
This document settled the necessity for a global imperative for engineering education. Global competitiveness, resulting from an increasingly interconnected global society and the economy creates an imperative for graduates of higher education to become globally competent and socially responsible. This paper includes a background on globalization, social responsibility, and service-learning. It covers the 360-degree concept for teaching socially responsible global citizens and presents mixed-methods pilot assessment results. The 360 Degree Model for Global Citizenship Education approach lays out a framework for building global citizenship-focused educational environments and academic coursework. As well, according to industry assessments, there is a need to train the next generation of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) leaders with global competence.
Introduction
Global competitiveness, because of a more interconnected global culture and economy, makes it necessary for graduates of higher education to be globally competent and socially responsible. Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) leaders must develop skills such as the ability to work in innovative, interdisciplinary, collaborative, and cross-cultural environments. Intercultural competence, global competence, and global citizenship are concepts incorporated in a socially responsible global citizen.
Engineering is generally stereotyped as a technical, science-based, and de-contextualized activity. Engineers should be recognized for what they can build for the future in many leadership roles in industry, government, and academia, not just technical jobs, and that the engineer of the coming years will be called upon to become a leader not only in business as well as in the non-profit and government sectors with the appropriate education and training. Concerns about technology must be weighed against more socially oriented objectives. This 'global imperative' also requires educators to build learning environments that are relevant to a new generation of students, the millennials. The millennial generation is the most diverse and largest group to ever attend college.  These kids solve problems by combining sociological scenarios from different civilizations (Monaco & M., 2007).  These students, according to Jonas-Dwyer and Romano, are civic-minded and courteous, and they "want to be the leaders," that they "want a challenge," and that they want to collaborate with their friends (Dwyer & Pospisil, 2004).
Background: The Role of Globalization and Global Citizenship
Educating socially responsible global citizens integrates several concepts from current educational research efforts. These include concepts of intercultural competence, global competence, and global citizenship. Cultural and global competence includes basic attitudes, knowledge, and skills. Global citizenship a set of guiding principles that inform the way one relates the experience to the wider global landscape.
Researcher Hans Schattle imbues global citizenship with precise characteristics, identifying primary global citizenship practices as demonstrating awareness, responsibility, and participation. The second characteristic of global citizens is taking responsibility. Finally, Schattle says that Global Citizens participate. Global citizens participate in the affairs of the community and influence the people to who they are exposed by doing and saying what they know is good and right.

Within the context of STEM, global competencies must also include sensitivities to the social, cultural, and moral impacts of science, technology, and engineering-based global solutions. Preparing next-generation leaders includes integrating the concepts of globalization into the undergraduate curriculum and increasing awareness and skill in global competence. incorporating the concepts of global citizenship, global competence, and social responsibility into the core STEM curriculum will greatly enhance the next generation of STEM learning and teaching, and the design of learning environments. Educational research from experts in study abroad supports the importance of immersion experiences in enhancing student outcomes related to growth in intercultural awareness and sensitivity from professionals in study abroad demonstrates the many benefits this global context provides.
Georgia Learning Outcomes of Students who Study Abroad released final research outcomes in
The GLOSSARY study compared outcomes for study abroad students with outcomes for traditional non-study abroad students and documents student growth in intercultural sensitivity, cultural navigation skills, personal growth, and many other cultural skills for those who study abroad. Additionally, the study demonstrated improved graduation rates for study abroad students compared to non-study abroad students in the range of 10-30%, depending on strata reviewed, and, higher graduation rates for at-risk students. This extensive research effort demonstrates the importance of immersing students in a global environment if one hopes to develop and educate students for the 21st century global workforce. Rumbley say "Global engagement, at its essence, is about committing to meaningful relationships with partners in other parts of the world." While experts in international studies are slowly making progress in demonstrating the effectiveness of international studies in increasing student levels of intercultural sensitivities and awareness, research on the effectiveness of intercultural studies in attracting and retaining STEM majors is virtually nonexistent.
Educating Socially Responsible Global Citizens described below.
A result of this initial effort was the development of the 360 Global Ed Model. The intended outcome of employing this model is to develop students who are socially responsible global citizens. The authors suggest there are both internal and external outcomes that are ultimately components of the effective socially responsible global citizen. Internal components are motivations that propel a person to engage in practices of global citizenship.
NextGen students include millennial and Z generation students as they matriculate to college age. As noted, Schattle’s model of awareness, responsibility, and participating describes the practices of global citizenship. The authors suggest the process of becoming a global citizen requires a reordering of Schattle’s model to gaining awareness, participating, and taking responsibility. They provide interdisciplinary teams with a project scope, and the teams then develop, design and construct solutions for STEM-based community problems.
Participation includes an immersive in-country service learning experience, authenticates and challenges student perceptions, builds on relationships to create intercultural sensitivity, and provides opportunity for personal growth, leadership and teamwork. Responsibility develops through student reflection which links experience to abstract theories and perceptions.
Constructivism
The ability to solve problems and take responsibility for learning ultimately resides in the learner. It is through making meaning of educational experiences that learners grow and expand their intellectual, social, and global horizons.
Interdisciplinary Learning
When learning in an inter-professional environment, learners build cooperative, collaborative and social learning skills. This inter-professional social environment then provides a safe place to understand the significance and importance of one’s own professional discipline and the contribution and importance, connectedness and contributions of those from other disciplines.
This breath and depth focus creates a T-student approach that appeals to
NextGen students who process large amounts of information, develop strong specialty skills, while wanting to serve a larger social good.
Service Learning
International service learning is essential to the effectives of the 360 Global Ed Model. Service learning is grounded in experiential education theory. Experiential education theory’s primary assumption is that experience is the foundation of learning and that service in a variety of forms provides authentic context experience. The benefits of service learning on student outcomes are well documented.
Global citizenship requires immersive, international experience. These rich, contextually based global experiences followed by guided reflection provide a transformative environment for student learning.
Transformational Leadership
Traditional education models often feature the professor as expert, and while fulfilling this capacity may, to a large extent still be warranted, millennial students often dismiss faculty expertise as only partially relevant. In today’s society where information is instantly accessible and quickly outdated students value doing more than knowing. Millennial students display frustration when faculty tries to leverage personal expertise. Transformational leaders, in contrast, demonstrate that there are multiple sources from which to gain expertise, and therefore stimulate and inspire students to achieve extraordinary outcomes by solving real-world problems in an authentic context.
By encouraging learners to develop and create solutions to these problems, the learners must create relationships, research solutions, and develop their own leadership capacities.
Network
This ‘participation’ toward global citizenship is bounded by awareness gained in pre-experience classroom efforts and post-experience responsibility through reflection. Courses offerings illustrating the efforts of the program include, "Global Citizenship and Social Responsibility" and "Social Responsibility in Construction Management". The inclass portion of these courses target knowledge and comprehension of social responsibility and globalization issues. From the engineering perspective, these courses focus on understanding the role of construction engineering and construction managers as socially responsible, global citizens within the context of multi-disciplined teams.
Multi-disciplined student teams from Health Science, Education, Engineering, and other disciplines develop integrated solutions for school or community defined needs. Student teams develop project plans that detail the materials required, quantity and cost estimates, a project schedule, a resource utilization plan and a daily safety plan. During the in-country experience, students procure materials and equipment and construct their designs. Team leadership responsibilities rotate among students.
A multi-dimensional course assessment was used to determine if the approach was successful in terms of student education and growth, industry participation and community interaction.
Post Survey Results
Post trip assessment results demonstrate personal growth in the areas of global citizenship and social responsibility, , teamwork and leadership, academic discipline and professional growth. Students were asked to rate their level of improvement in areas of global citizenship. These testimonials demonstrate the tremendously positive internal and external outcomes from the multi-disciplined collaborative service-learning experience created in the 360 Global Ed model.
Observations
One particular example is when the client did not allow the student teams to work on site on Sunday. This led to the decision to not do the project and combine teams to work on another project. During the construction phase, changes to designs occurred daily based upon the challenges the teams face and the requests of the school administration. For example, fire ants, lack of wheelbarrows and the intense heat required that the teams alter their schedules and work together to accomplish their projects.
Although this resulted in longer days, it allowed the teams time to interact with children and provide for a safer jobsite. Access to water was another challenge for project teams. An example solution was teams working together by utilizing the unused 250-liter water tanks from one project as temporary storage to supply water for concrete and mortar mixing needs for another project. Changing student leadership each day can have significant impact on team dynamics and performance.
Each student leader exhibits different leadership styles and traits.
Student Reflections
The service-learning component of the 360 Global Ed model provides a real life example of the project planning process, the challenges of working in teams, and significance of social responsibility. As noted, the students thoroughly planned their projects but during the building process conditions changed and they had to adapt. This was reflected in the students’ reflections. " Some of those boys annoyed me all week, but when our bus pulled out of the gravel lot, I was sad to leave them." Students grew to understand that they are part of a global community and that they can and should make a difference.
Unintended impacts
At the end of one trip, the students realized the impact their actions had on the community and the improvement of the quality of life for all who attend and work at the primary school. The tangible impacts of the projects constructed are not the only contribution the students made to the community.
Conclusion
Educating the next generation of engineering professionals requires providing a broad perspective in the areas of social responsibility and global citizenship. The 360 Global Ed model provides a theoretically supported transformative framework of awareness, participation, and responsibility to provide rich internal and external outcomes toward social responsibility and global citizenship. Based upon the success of this project and the lessons learned, the authors are confident that the 360 Global Ed model provides a framework for successful implementation of international service learning courses in other university programs.
References
Dwyer, J., & Pospisil, R. (2004). The millennial effect: Implications for academic development. Proceedings of the 2004 annual international conference of the Higher Education Research and Development Society of Australasia (HERDSA).
Monaco, M., & M., M. (2007). The Millennial Student: A New Generation of Learners. Athletic Training Education Journal, 42-46.
